---
title: CSC138 HW 2 FALL 2023
---
# CSC138 HW 2 FALL 2023

1. Identify OSI layers
    - a. $\boxed{\text{Link Layer}}$
    - b. $\boxed{\text{Network Layer}}$
    - c. $\boxed{\text{Transport Layer}}$

2. Suppose that you have two browser applications open and active at the same time
and that both applications are accessing the same server to retrieve HTTP documents at the
same time. How does the server know how to tell the difference between the two applications
(to send the correct document(s) to the correct application)?

    **The HTTP headers contain information about the application that made the request on the magine through the User-Agent field.**


3. Suppose that we want to distribute a file with a size of ğ¹ = 20 Gbits to ğ‘ = 100
clients/peers. The server supports an upload rate of ğ‘¢ğ‘  = 30 Mbps while each client/peer has
a download rate of ğ‘‘ğ‘– = 2 Mbps and an upload rate of ğ‘¢, where ğ‘¢ = 300 Kbps or 700 Kbps.
Show your calculations.
- a. Calculate the minimum distribution time for a client-server distribution using the two
values of ğ‘¢ given above.

- b. Calculate the minimum distribution time for a peer-to-peer distribution using the two
values of ğ‘¢ given above.

4. TCP/IP over Ethernet supports basic frames with a total size of up to 1518 bytes
(including both the message payload and headers). Suppose that an application protocol wants
to send an L-byte message across the network to its peer over TCP/IP. The TCP segment adds
20 bytes of header to the payload, while IP packet adds an additional 20 bytes of header to
the segment. If the Ethernet frame adds 18 bytes of header to the packet, calculate the size of
L the application needs so that exactly 95% of the transmitted bits in the physical layer carry
the message payload (i.e., the data itself, not the header). Show your calculations.

$$\begin{equation}\begin{aligned}\\
H = 20 + 20 + 18 &= 58\\
\end{aligned}\end{equation}$$

$$\begin{equation}\begin{aligned}\\
L = H+P
\end{aligned}\end{equation}$$

$$\begin{equation}\begin{aligned}\\
.95 &= \frac{L}{P} = \frac{L}{L - H}\\
.95(L-H) &= L\\
.95L - .95H &= L\\
\frac{.95L}{L} - \frac{.95H}{L} &= 1\\
.95 - \frac{.95H}{L} &= 1\\
\frac{.95H}{L}  &= 1 -.95\\
\frac{1}{L}  &= \frac{1 -.95}{.95H}\\
L &= \frac{.95H}{1 -.95}\\
L &= \frac{.95(58)}{1 -.95}\\
L &= \frac{.95(58)}{1 -.95}\\
L &= \boxed{1102 text{ bytes}}
\end{aligned}\end{equation}$$
