---
title: Philosophy of Science
---

# Philosophy of Science

## What Is Logic

## Models of Inference 
### 1 Deductive Inference

**Argument 1** 
p1: Smaug is a dragon.
p2: All dragons are mortal. 
c : Smaug is mortal.

if p1 and p2 are true then you can conclude without a doubt that the conclusion is true.

**How is this a bad argument?** :
- We know that dragons don't exist $\therefore$ p1 and p2 are false.

> arguments themselves are not true or false. The premises can be. Arguments are only structures of ideas. **Argument 1 is Logically valid argument, but has false premises.** 

**Argument 2**
p1: Sacramento is in California.
p2: You are in Sacramento.
c : You are in California.

> Argument 2 is also logically valid, and has true premisses.

#### Deductively Sound (cogent) Argument Requirements: 
1. Logically Valid. 
2. True Premises.

**Argument 3: Lucy's argument**
p1: When lucy takes the bus, she gets to class on time. 
p2: She got to class on time.
c : she took the bus.

> Conclusions can be true or false, only arguments can be valid or invalid. A logically tight argument can still be good even if the arguments premises are not valid. Not the other way around: Logically unsound argument is never good.

### 2 Inductive Arguments

1. Induction based on surveyable sets.
    - p1: 80% of students own an umbrella.
    - p2: Lucy is a student.
    - c : Probablly, Lucy owns an umbrella.
    > if the percentage is less then the arguement is less.

2. Induction based on unsurveyable sets.
    - p1: Apple 1 is tasty. 
    - p2: Apple 2 is tasty. 
    - ...
    - Pn: Apple n is tasty.
    - c : Apple (n+1) will be tasty.
    > David hume - induction
    **Why is this still rational?** 

### 3 Abductive Inferences
Not deduction because we dont start from a general conclusion. Never certain.

* **Arg 1** 
    - p1: Claire hates her uncle.
    - p2: Claire said that she wants to kill her uncle.
    - p3: Claire was at the uncles house the night before.
    - p4: Claire owns a gun.
    - p5: Uncle was found dead by claire's gun.
    - p6: Uncle called police sayng "she wants to kill me".
    - c : Claire killed her uncle.

* **Arg 2 Lucys argument revisited**
    - p1: When lucy takes the bus, she gets to class on time. 
    - p2: She go tto class on time.
    - p3: **There is a bus line near her house.** 
    - p4: **It was raining.** 
    - p5: **She lives far away.** 
    - p6: **There is no train.** 
    - p7: **She doesnt own a horse.** 
    - p8: **She has a bus ticket on backpack.** 
    - c :  She took the bus.
    > The more evidence you have, the better case you have for your conclusion.

### Deductive Argument

> TODO: Picture of a box with all green balls.

1. All balls are green. 
2. This ball comes from box 1. 
3. this ball will be green. 
**argument is deductively valid!** 

### Inductive Argument
**Arg 2**
> inductive argument. Dont rely on previous knowledge only on current experience.
1. draw ball and its green.
2. draw ball again and its green again.

> **Rule:**  Use only the information gathered in the experiment.


### Abductive Argument

> **Rule:** No rules! You can use extra considerations.

1. Green paint factory nearby.
2. Ball factory nearby.
3. One person owns both.
4. Shortage of other colors.
5. Owner loves green balls.
6. **c:** the next ball, it will be green. 

> :warning: Not absolute certainty.

## Aristotle
- Aristotle thought scientific knowledge must be certain.
- Knowledge must be based on experience. 

### Francis Bacon & Issac Newton. 
- Add **Rule**: based on emperical evidence. Stuff you can perceive with your senses.
- Does not like hypothesis.
- using abduction without realizing it.

### David Hume
- Showed the limitations to above approach.
- laws of nature are just a matter of custom and habit. Expectation vs reality.

### Decartes :heart:
> Professor loves decartes.

> if your standard for knowledge is absolute certainty then you do not have knowledge - Prof.

### Life of Aristotle (384-322BC)
- Sutdent of **Plato** who was student of **Socrates**.
- Aristotle was tutor to alexander the great.

### Philosiphy

**Arg1 Good argument** 
- Earthly things tend to fall.
- This rock is made of earth.
- **C**: This rock will wall.

Argument is (Scientific Knowledge): 
- Valid 
- Sound
- Good Prediction
- Good Explaination 

**Arg2 Bad Argument** 
- When the tides are high the moon is near.
- The tides are high.
- **C**: The moon is near.

Argument is: 
- Valid
- Sound
- Prediction
- Not an explaination.

> :construction: premises Must be causal relationship. antecedent must be causally connected to the precedent. $if P \text{ then } q$ 

The tides do not cause the moon to be near.

Causes explain their effects but effects do not explain the causes.


**Arg3**
- When Air is humid (AH)
    - Clothes take longer to dry (CLD)
    - Planes need longer take off distance (PLT)

1. 
- if PLT then AH
- PLT
- **C** AH 

2. 
- if CLD then PLT
- CLD
- **C** PLT 

3. **Correct** 
- if AH, then CLD
- AH
- **C** CLD

4. 
- if CLD then AH
- CLD 
- **C** AH 
