---
title: CSC171 | Software Engineering Project Managerment
professor: Amarjot Biring
---
# CSC171: Software Engineering Project Managerment

## Chapter 1: Why Agile and Lean Approaches Work
> :information_source: How do we change our mindset - get people involved more often and regularly.

### Project Definition
* What is a project? 
    - A series of tasks that need to be completed to reach a specific goal. 
    - The use of speciic ln
### Problems with Projects
* Key requirements change. 
* Architecture or hlevel design not sufficient. 
* Nothing is released at the desired date.


* Project Managers
    - Think they can hand requirements to a team and magically they will deliver. 
    > :information_source: How do i get this into a form that architects understand. 
* Architects
    - Think they can work on architecture and hand it to developers to implement. 
    > :information_source: How do i get this into a form that developers understand. 
* Developers 
    - Think they can hand code to testers, and it will all just work.

* Working Sequentially 
    - Project Managers -> Architect -> Developers -> Testers


### Projects
* No one-person projects.
    - require at least a developer and a user.
    - More often, requires a developer, tester, and user.
* Project Team
    - Developer and tester collaborate with the user. 
* Make sure you are on the right track
    - cannot predict everything about aproject. 
    - prototypes
    - delivery of small chunks of value. 
* Iterations 
    - Teams deliver more often, they have an opportunity to learn more often. 
    - Deliver a little
    - Get feedback
    - Repeat
### Agile Projects
* Give up prediction and control
* Help deliver working products
* deliver products faster and better. 
* No one way to use agile. 
    - Use what works best for you and the project you are working on.

### Agile is a Cultural Change
* Working with transparency 
* Driven by value
* Colaborating accross the org. 
* Focus on frequent delivery for feedback.

### Agile Approach

* People have ideas.
* A responsible person ( product owner _ collects ideas. 
* Product owner ranks the ideas into a backlog (priority list) 
* On a regular basis, the team 
    - Works on the backlog.
    - Creates and demosntrates product.
    - Receives feedback on product.
    - Retrospects on the work. 
    - Delivers the product.

### Agile Requirements 
* Cross functional teams
    - With necessary capabilities and skills.
* Product owner 
    - Provudes team with ranked backlog. 
    - Might manage the input from several other people.
* Team completes valuable chunks of work often. 
    - Sometimes work can be completed in as fast as a day.
* Release work product often. 
    - Every two weeks at minimum
* Reflect on work process. 
    - Adjust as necessary

### Definition of Team
* Teams have interdependent work and goals.
* Entire team has one goal.
* Team members make commitment to eachother about the work.
* Teamwork video: 
    - Navy SEALS 
        - Elite team of the US Navy trained to operate in any environment: sear air and land.
> :information_source: Giving to another and having their back ... Service! Willingness to be there for eachother.

### The 12 principles of Agile Software Development

1. Deliver early and often to satisfy the customer. 
2. Welcome changing requirements. 
3. Deliver working software frequently. 
4. Business people and developers must work together. 
5. Trust motivated people to do their jobs. 
6. Face to face conversation is the most efficient and effective method of converying information.
7. Working software is the primary measures of progress. 
8. Maintain a sutainable pace
9. Continious attention to technical exellence and good deisgn enhances agility (flexibility)
10. Simpllicity - the art of maximizing the amount of work not done -- is essential. 
11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self organizing teams.
12. Reflect and adjust at regular intervals. 

* **Change**
    - When you build small increments and ask for feedback often, you can welcome **change**.
    - **Change** might be in the product or in the teams process.

> :information_source: Agile teams fine-tune their work and the product when they reflect and adjust at regular intervals.

### Iteration-Based Agile
- Work is not done sequentially
- Team often performs these activities as a team, on one or two features at a time.

> Iteration-based agile approach provides a cadence - a project rythm -- for teams to deliver and lear, retrospect and plan.

### Flow based Agile
-  Team maps the flow of value through the team.
- Team sets a WIP limit for each column on the board and tracks the team's cycle time -- how long features take on average.
- Team and product owner manage the work based on those limites. 
- After finishing some work, the team delivers and learns, retrospects, and reviews what it wants to improve.

> :construction: Professor gives **Kanban**  an example of flow based Agile.

### Iteration vs Flow 
* Flow agile is like a long race run in short burst. 
* Iteration agile is like a short race run at full speed.

## Chapter 2: Build the Cross Functional Team

* Consists of: 
    * individuals from different functional areas.
    * Developers
    * Testers
    * UX
        > Jacob Neilsen UX research
    * DBA (Database admins)

* Always have developers and testers

### Product developent team
* Depends on the needs of the product
    * Databsae
        * Databse skills: DBA, data modeling
    * User documentation
        * Skills to write documentation
    * Performance/reliability
        * Architecture and design skills
* All projucst must have a product owner
    * The person responsible for interacting with the team to create and rank the backlog.
* Your team needs capabilities, not people.
    * One person may have multiple capabilities.
        * Develper may be able to help with testing.
    > :warning: Adding more people to the project does not necessarily speed things up. Opt to find people who can provide multiple capabilities to the team.

### Agile Team
* Has all the people it needs to complete the work.
* Does not change team members for a given feature.
* Has shared goal for its project.
* Owns its work. Members commit to their work, and they own their artifacts, including code and tests.
* Does not change people inside of an iteration.
* Is stable, so people can learn to work together and can learn their product area(s).
* No one changes what the team commits to for that iteration.

### Agile Team Roles
* The product owner or customers decides which features including tech debt or defects, the team will work on and when.
* The team:
    * Is in charge of how the team does the work.
    * Makes all the architectural and design decisions.
    * Is free to attempt to change the product owners mind about when to do something to make it easier to implement a feature.
    > :information_source: Dont accept solutions, accept problems and provide solutions.
* Team must be a reasonable size.
    > 2 Pizza :pizza: teams. If a team takes more than 2 pizzas to feed then it is too big.

### Agile Team Size
* Between 4-6 people
* Small teams dont have enough ideas. (less than 3)
* Large teams lose the baility to communicate. (more than 9)

### Communication Paths
> :construction: How to deal with teams 
* Collaborative teams need pari-wise communication
    * Everyone talks to everyone else
    * No restriction on communication.
* A six person team requires 15 unique paths for full communication.
* Communication Paths = (N*(N-1))/2

* Once path gets over 21, the entire team does not communicaste with eachother.
    * They chooses who to work with and who to ignore
* Once a team gets to 10 people, the number of paths is 45, which is unmanageable for most of us.

### Creating Smaller Teams
* Make the stories smaller so the team can be smaller.
* Ogranize by feature or feature set.
    * Feature team size of no more than six.
        * Feature sets could be search, admin, billing.
            - Each set might need just one team.
    * Consider organizing as a program around smaller feature sets.
        * For example, feature set for simple search and another feature set for advanced search. 
        * Both would be search feature sets and the team members might need to work or speak with eachother.
* Check for team skills and capabilities.
    * Some tea members might be able to cover multiple such as Developers also testing.

### Self Organizing Teams
* Managers Should not assign how teams organize to an extent.
    - They dont have enough information about the people.
        - They dont know their full capabilities.
    - They dont know what the team members want to learn

* Ask people to create feature teams that make sense for them.
    - They have purpose.
    - They start to exercise their autonomy so they can build more mastery.
    - Team decides what features to work on and whom to work with.
    - You will see better throughput and more of a chance at technical excellence.

* Ask Everyone to come to a room.
* Explain the feature teams you expect.
* Label flip charts with names of the features.
* Ask people to choose what they want to work on.
* Now see what you have.
> :warning: features that are not popular might not be chosen.

* Ask each team to see what their missing capabilities are.
* Ask each person to state their capabilities.
* Facilitate organizing teams who have missing capabilities.
    - Teams might be missing product owner, ui/ux, or testing capabilities.

### Team Culture
* Organizational Culture
    - What people can say, how they treat eachother, and what the organization rewards.
* Values
    - How people treat eachother.
    - Many activities to help team create a list of values.

### Keep Teams Together
* Takes time for teams to learn how to work together. 
* Poeple learn together by working together.
* **Forming** 
    - Team is created
    - They are polite to eachother and attempt to work together.
* **Storming** 
    - As they try to work together, they storm.
    - One person doesnt like the way another person makes decisions.
    - They disagree on the outcome.
    - Whatever theissue, the team memnbers learn how to work together.
* **Norming** 
    - After a while they start to normalize.
        * Developers decide on ap articular way of commenting code or how long a class or routine of some sort should be.
        * Testers decide how much to automate when.
        * Enture Team leasrns who makes which kinds of mistakes and how to look for those problems.
    - Team Learns
        * Who must have the last word. 
        * How to provide eachother feedback and support.
* **Performing** 
    - Team members can learn to excel as a team.
    - Team can 
        - be in flow together.
        - Know who will react in which way.
        - Can manage problems as a team, regardless of the kind of problems they have.

* Teams get to norming, and preferably to performing. 
* It takes time for a team to learn how to norm and then perform.
* Teams must work together on their work to move to norming and performing.
    - **It takes time for teams to learn how to be effective together**
* The more the team can work together, the faster they will norm and then perform.
> :graph: Forming->Storming->Norming->Performing

### Team Traps
* Your team is a component team.
    - Team is missing some important resources. 
    - Team needs help from other teams or  people to finish features.

* Everyone on your team is a narrow expert.
    - people typically hired based on expertise.
    - Generalizing specialists have expertise in several areas
    - Possible solutions. 
        * Lunch-and-learns
            - At a lunch meeting, one person at a time presents his or her area of deep expertise.
        * Consider pairing/Shadowing
* Developers and testers don't work together.
    - Developers finish their work in the first two week iteration.
    - Testers might even start their testing in that iteration, but they dont finish in the same iteration. 
    - When developers finish first, they create WIP for testers.
    - They may also create WIP for themselves when the testers find problems.
* Team Membership is not stable
    - Sometimes managers asking team members to work on more than one team.
* Team pushes to finish work
    - At an unsustainable pace.
         * Team is pushing to complete the work just before a demo.
         * The team wants a break between one chunk of work and the next.
         * The team is working overtime all the time.
    - Possible solutions.
         * Collaborate at a sustainable pace.
         * Ensure team is at their best at all times.

* **Why does the number of people on a team matter? What is considered a large team and why are large teams not recommended?**

The number of people matters because having too many people can lead to communication problems, and having too litle people can lead to a lack of ideas. Anything over nine people is considered a large team and anything under 3 is considered too small. 

* **Explain self organizing teams.**

Self organizing teams are teams where the manager does not place people into what they think is a good spot but instead lets that person choose thier position on the team. This is because, often times the manager does not have enough information about the persons interests or capabilities.

* **How do you know if a team is working at an unsustainable pace.**  

One way to know if a team is working at an unsustainable pace if they are pushing to complete work just before a demo or deadline. Another way to know if the team wants a break after every chink of work because they are working overtime all of the time.

## Class Semester Project

- Explain the agile process to clients.
- Explain each slide with a document script.

## Chapter 3: Building Teamwork with Interpersonal Practices

### Introduction 
* Interpersonal skills are sesential to building team and culture.
* The people on the team must be trated as human, not resources.
* Organization culture will change when people on the team are treated as humans.
* Agile is a human-centric, collaborative approach to product development
    - Teams need the ability to work as a team using interpersonal skills.

### Interpersonal Skills 
* How a person interacts with others.
* Examples: 
    - Active listening
    - Collaboration
    - Empathy
    - Respect
    - Dependability
    - Positive Attitude

### Agile Team Member Interpersonal Skills
* Agile team members must
    - Collaborate with eachother. 
    - Ask eachother for help. 
    - Be adaptable, willint to work on whatever. 
* Agile team members should prefer
    - Doing something good enough for now.
    - Creating experiments try something and receive feedback
    - Be willing to work outside their preferences. 
> :construction: 3M example - they created tape that way?

### Feedback
* What is feedback? 
    - Information about past behavior, delivered in the present, which may influence future behavior.
* People receive feedback from their managers typically once a year.
    - Performance appraisals (see example)
    - Feedback is usually vague
* Peer based feedback
    - From team members instead of people outside the team.
    - Helps team members collaborate, learn, and adapt to what the team needs.

### Provide Feedback
* Create an opening to deliver feedback.
* Describe the behavior or result in a way that the person can hear.
* State the inpact using "I" language.
    > :warning: "You didnt come to class today" vs "I did not see you in class today"

#### Giving critial feedback
- Create culture where people know 
    - feedback is not to critizise
    - it is to improve
- Point to the evidence first
- Good feedback is not about convering the point
    - its about create a condition where they want to hear feedback.
##### Summary
* Make a request for continued or changed behavior.

#### Providing Feedback Example
* You have a product that requires multiple language support. 
* A new tester joins the team discorves problem in the English version.
* He opens three defect reports, one for each language.
* Judy, the dev, has a conversation with him.
> Better to deal with issues quickly before they create a toxic environment.

### Coaching 
* Team members take responsibility for completing work together.
* They coach eachother to help move the work across the board.
* When team members realize they don't work something, they ask for more training or help.
* As a leader, you might be able to help. You might not.

#### External Coaching
* Software development - collaborative effort

### Building trust
* Build by working together.
* Trust is built when teams
    - focust on work
* Individuals are trustworthy
    - they deliver.

### Team Env of Safety
* Teams need safety to build skills
* Building skills helps create safe environment 
    > :warning: no public humiliation.
* Important to 
    - Asl questions
    - Challenge assumptions
    - Find new ways of working together
    - Find new ideas and process
        - Restaurant Example; 

* Safety allows team to manage ambiguity and 
    - learn early by experimenting
    - help admit mistakes
* Safety is created when 
    - encourage learning
    - clear and direct lang
    - admit we dont know
    - set boundries
    - awknowledge when we fail

**Create env in which members feel safe to take risks and not afraid to get in trouble.** 
