---
title: CSC171: Software Engineering Project Managerment
professor: Amarjot Biring
---
# CSC171: Software Engineering Project Managerment

## Chapter 1: Why Agile and Lean Approaches Work
> :information_source: How do we change our mindset - get people involved more often and regularly.

### Project Definition
* What is a project? 
    - A series of tasks that need to be completed to reach a specific goal. 
    - The use of speciic ln
### Problems with Projects
* Key requirements change. 
* Architecture or hlevel design not sufficient. 
* Nothing is released at the desired date.


* Project Managers
    - Think they can hand requirements to a team and magically they will deliver. 
    > :information_source: How do i get this into a form that architects understand. 
* Architects
    - Think they can work on architecture and hand it to developers to implement. 
    > :information_source: How do i get this into a form that developers understand. 
* Developers 
    - Think they can hand code to testers, and it will all just work.

* Working Sequentially 
    - Project Managers -> Architect -> Developers -> Testers


### Projects
* No one-person projects.
    - require at least a developer and a user.
    - More often, requires a developer, tester, and user.
* Project Team
    - Developer and tester collaborate with the user. 
* Make sure you are on the right track
    - cannot predict everything about aproject. 
    - prototypes
    - delivery of small chunks of value. 
* Iterations 
    - Teams deliver more often, they have an opportunity to learn more often. 
    - Deliver a little
    - Get feedback
    - Repeat
### Agile Projects
* Give up prediction and control
* Help deliver working products
* deliver products faster and better. 
* No one way to use agile. 
    - Use what works best for you and the project you are working on.

### Agile is a Cultural Change
* Working with transparency 
* Driven by value
* Colaborating accross the org. 
* Focus on frequent delivery for feedback.

### Agile Approach

* People have ideas.
* A responsible person ( product owner _ collects ideas. 
* Product owner ranks the ideas into a backlog (priority list) 
* On a regular basis, the team 
    - Works on the backlog.
    - Creates and demosntrates product.
    - Receives feedback on product.
    - Retrospects on the work. 
    - Delivers the product.

### Agile Requirements 
* Cross functional teams
    - With necessary capabilities and skills.
* Product owner 
    - Provudes team with ranked backlog. 
    - Might manage the input from several other people.
* Team completes valuable chunks of work often. 
    - Sometimes work can be completed in as fast as a day.
* Release work product often. 
    - Every two weeks at minimum
* Reflect on work process. 
    - Adjust as necessary

### Definition of Team
* Teams have interdependent work and goals.
* Entire team has one goal.
* Team members make commitment to eachother about the work.
* Teamwork video: 
    - Navy SEALS 
        - Elite team of the US Navy trained to operate in any environment: sear air and land.
> :information_source: Giving to another and having their back ... Service! Willingness to be there for eachother.

### The 12 principles of Agile Software Development

1. Deliver early and often to satisfy the customer. 
2. Welcome changing requirements. 
3. Deliver working software frequently. 
4. Business people and developers must work together. 
5. Trust motivated people to do their jobs. 
6. Face to face conversation is the most efficient and effective method of converying information.
7. Working software is the primary measures of progress. 
8. Maintain a sutainable pace
9. Continious attention to technical exellence and good deisgn enhances agility (flexibility)
10. Simpllicity - the art of maximizing the amount of work not done -- is essential. 
11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self organizing teams.
12. Reflect and adjust at regular intervals. 

* **Change**
    - When you build small increments and ask for feedback often, you can welcome **change**.
    - **Change** might be in the product or in the teams process.

> :information_source: Agile teams fine-tune their work and the product when they reflect and adjust at regular intervals.
## Chapter 2: Build the Cross Functional Team
