---
title: EDUC121 Notes
---
# EDUC121 Notes

## Culture and Multiculturalism

* **What is Multiculturalism in Education**: Values different studetn cultures and prepares students to thrive in a diverse world. At its core, multicultural education fosters equality, justice, and equity, and it establishes the reality of philosophical ideals in classroom environments. Mutlicultural education is what schools implement to establish equitable educational opportunities for all their students. It is also an ongoing process of helping studetns succeed in their academic and personal lives.

* **What it is not** : It is not books which have a sense of *othering*, or a feeling of being *left out* or being made to feel *exotic*. Multicultural books are not books which do not act as mirrors and windows.    

### Windows and Sliding Glass Doors
We need diverse books because we need books in which children can see reflections of themselves.
Sliding glass doors allow you to enter the world being represented.
Not only marganilized children benefit from this.

### Questions to Keep In mind
* Why or why not would this be a quality book to share with children?
* Pay attention to the author: based upon the content of the book is the author a good representation for the book? why/why not?
* Every author writes from a certain perspective: what is the author’s perspective.
* Any concerns we should be aware of?
* Pay attention to the illustration: how are the characters portrayed?
* Who is the illustrator?

### Danger of a Single Story
* name of speaker is Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
* Early reader, started at age of 4
    * mostly read british and american books
* Early writer, started at age of 7
    * Wrote stories I was reading white and blue eyed.
    * Despite the fact that lived in Nigeria
    * Characters drank ginger beer even though she had never drank ginger beer.
    * She grew up reading books with mainly foreigners she was convinced books needed foreigners in them.
    * This Demonstrates that children are impresionable and influenced by what they read.
* Things changes when she Discovered african books.
    * These books were not easily available.
    * Went through a mental shift that let her see that girls like her could also exist in literature.
* She Started to write about things she Recognized.
* Her Discovery of african writers saved her from having a single story of what books are.
* She comes from a middle class family where her Father was a professor and her Mother was an administrator.
    * When she was 8 years old, they got a new house boy named Fide.
    * Fide chore boy was poor
    * Fide's mother showed her a beautiful basket made by Fide's brother and she was surprised by it.
    * She had a single story of Fide as a poor person and did not think them capable of producing anything.
* She went to university at age 19.
    * American roomate was shocked that she knew how to speak English.
    * The roomate did not know that Nigera has english as an official language.
    * Her roomate was confused when she played her tape of Mariah Carey.
        * Roomate was expecting tribal music.
    * Her roomate had a single story of Africa
        * In this single story, there was no possibility Africans being similar to her.
        * They did not think they were human equals.
* The speaker Did not immediately Identify as African.
   * Americans bundled her up with all other africans and it became part of her identity.
* There is many single stories of Africa.
    * Of being stricken with poverty and waiting to be saved by white people.
* Single story of africa comes from Western Literature
    * London merchant john locke
    * Started tradition of telling tales of africa in the negatives.
* Professor said book failed to be authentically African.
    * Single story about africa.
* She heald a single story about mexicans.
* Evil word: To be greater than another (Unkali?)
* How stories are told are based on power.
* If you want to disposses a people is to tell their story and start with secondly.
    * Start the story with arrows and not the arrival of british and you have a different story for Native Americans.
    * Start the story with the failure of the African State and not with the colonial creation of the African State.
* Nigerian men physical Abusers. Such a shame - From student who read a story about it.
    * Read a story American Psycho, such a shame all young Americans are psychos.
* Writers should have bad childhood.
* Overall good childhood.
* Single story creates stereotypes.
    * They are not untrue, they are incomplete.
    * They make one story become the only story.
* When we realize that there is not a single story about any place, we regain a kind of paradise.

* **Patronize (verb)**: to treat with an apparent kindness that betrays a feeling of superiority
* **Incomprehensible (adjective)** : not able to be understood; not intelligible
* **Fleece (verb)** : to strip of money or property by fraud or extortion
* **Abject (adjective)** : sunk to or existing in a low state or condition
* **Dispossess (verb)** : to deprive someone of land, property, or other possessions
* **Stereotype (noun)** : a common but often oversimplified idea about a group of people
* **Innovative (adjective)** : tending to introduce new ideas; original and creative in thinking
* **Malign (verb)** : to speak about someone in a spitefully critical manner
