---
title: Philosophy of Science
---

# Philosophy of Science

## What Is Logic

## Models of Inference 
### 1 Deductive Inference

**Argument 1** 
p1: Smaug is a dragon.
p2: All dragons are mortal. 
c : Smaug is mortal.

if p1 and p2 are true then you can conclude without a doubt that the conclusion is true.

**How is this a bad argument?** :
- We know that dragons don't exist $\therefore$ p1 and p2 are false.

> arguments themselves are not true or false. The premises can be. Arguments are only structures of ideas. **Argument 1 is Logically valid argument, but has false premises.** 

**Argument 2**
p1: Sacramento is in California.
p2: You are in Sacramento.
c : You are in California.

> Argument 2 is also logically valid, and has true premisses.

#### Deductively Sound (cogent) Argument Requirements: 
1. Logically Valid. 
2. True Premises.

**Argument 3: Lucy's argument**
p1: When lucy takes the bus, she gets to class on time. 
p2: She got to class on time.
c : she took the bus.

> Conclusions can be true or false, only arguments can be valid or invalid. A logically tight argument can still be good even if the arguments premises are not valid. Not the other way around: Logically unsound argument is never good.

### 2 Inductive Arguments

1. Induction based on surveyable sets.
    - p1: 80% of students own an umbrella.
    - p2: Lucy is a student.
    - c : Probablly, Lucy owns an umbrella.
    > if the percentage is less then the arguement is less.

2. Induction based on unsurveyable sets.
    - p1: Apple 1 is tasty. 
    - p2: Apple 2 is tasty. 
    - ...
    - Pn: Apple n is tasty.
    - c : Apple (n+1) will be tasty.
    > David hume - induction
    **Why is this still rational?** 

### 3 Abductive Inferences
Not deduction because we dont start from a general conclusion. Never certain.

* **Arg 1** 
    - p1: Claire hates her uncle.
    - p2: Claire said that she wants to kill her uncle.
    - p3: Claire was at the uncles house the night before.
    - p4: Claire owns a gun.
    - p5: Uncle was found dead by claire's gun.
    - p6: Uncle called police sayng "she wants to kill me".
    - c : Claire killed her uncle.

* **Arg 2 Lucys argument revisited**
    - p1: When lucy takes the bus, she gets to class on time. 
    - p2: She go tto class on time.
    - p3: **There is a bus line near her house.** 
    - p4: **It was raining.** 
    - p5: **She lives far away.** 
    - p6: **There is no train.** 
    - p7: **She doesnt own a horse.** 
    - p8: **She has a bus ticket on backpack.** 
    - c :  She took the bus.
    > The more evidence you have, the better case you have for your conclusion.

### Deductive Argument

> TODO: Picture of a box with all green balls.

1. All balls are green. 
2. This ball comes from box 1. 
3. this ball will be green. 
**argument is deductively valid!** 

### Inductive Argument
**Arg 2**
> inductive argument. Dont rely on previous knowledge only on current experience.
1. draw ball and its green.
2. draw ball again and its green again.

> **Rule:**  Use only the information gathered in the experiment.


### Abductive Argument

> **Rule:** No rules! You can use extra considerations.

1. Green paint factory nearby.
2. Ball factory nearby.
3. One person owns both.
4. Shortage of other colors.
5. Owner loves green balls.
6. **c:** the next ball, it will be green. 

> :warning: Not absolute certainty.

## Aristotle
- Aristotle thought scientific knowledge must be certain.
- Knowledge must be based on experience. 

### Francis Bacon & Issac Newton. 
- Add **Rule**: based on emperical evidence. Stuff you can perceive with your senses.
- Does not like hypothesis.
- using abduction without realizing it.

### David Hume
- Showed the limitations to above approach.
- laws of nature are just a matter of custom and habit. Expectation vs reality.
- Conceptual analysis

### Decartes :heart:
> Professor loves decartes.

> if your standard for knowledge is absolute certainty then you do not have knowledge - Prof.

### Life of Aristotle (384-322BC)
- Sutdent of **Plato** who was student of **Socrates**.
- Aristotle was tutor to alexander the great.

### Philosiphy

**Arg1 Good argument** 
- Earthly things tend to fall.
- This rock is made of earth.
- **C**: This rock will wall.

Argument is (Scientific Knowledge): 
- Valid 
- Sound
- Good Prediction
- Good Explaination 

**Arg2 Bad Argument** 
- When the tides are high the moon is near.
- The tides are high.
- **C**: The moon is near.

Argument is: 
- Valid
- Sound
- Prediction
- Not an explaination.

> :construction: premises Must be causal relationship. antecedent must be causally connected to the precedent. $if P \text{ then } q$ 

The tides do not cause the moon to be near.

Causes explain their effects but effects do not explain the causes.


**Arg3**
- When Air is humid (AH)
    - Clothes take longer to dry (CLD)
    - Planes need longer take off distance (PLT)

1. 
- if PLT then AH
- PLT
- **C** AH 

2. 
- if CLD then PLT
- CLD
- **C** PLT 

3. **Correct** 
- if AH, then CLD
- AH
- **C** CLD

4. 
- if CLD then AH
- CLD 
- **C** AH 

### Deduction, Induction Abduction and PROOFS

#### Deduction 
if premises are true, and argument is valid then it Establishes the conclusion with absolute certainty. It is in itselfl **is a proof**.

**Absolute certainty** 

#### Induction
Not a proof.

**A strict empiricist approach prevents us from rationally predicting the conclusion** 
> empiricist approach is one based only on experience.

#### Abduction
Not a proof.

**Here we go beyond strict empiricism** 

> In science, due to the problem of induction, you cannot prove any giventheory to be correct, but if you find at least one contradiction, then you can prove that it is incorrect. - Karl Popper

- **Good Example**
    1. If I take the buss I make it on time.
    2. I did not make it. 
    3. **C**: Therefore I didn't take the bus.
    > This is a good argument because the set of stituations where I took the bus are in the set of situatins where I make it on time. so if i did not make it on time then I for sure could not have taken the bus.

- **Bad Example**
    1. If I take the buss I make it on time.
    2. I made it on time.
    3. **C:** Therefore I took the bus.
    > This is a bad argument because you could ave made it on time through other means. The set of all situations where you make it on time contains the bus but it also can contain others.

- **Scientific Example** 
    1. If newtonian physics is correct, venus would follow orbit $\theta$. 
    2. But, venus doesnt follow orbit $\theta$.
    3. **C:** Therefore, Newtonian physics is not correct.

- **Scientific Example**
    1. If newtonian physics is correct, earth would follow orbit $\phi$
    2. Earth does follow orbit $\phi$
    3. **C:** Therfore Newtonian physics is correct.

> :warning: Absolute certainty is outside the realm of science according to Popper. However, Popper thought wrongly that you could not have a clue about what can be ruled out.


**Popper's "falsifiability" criterion** 
> :construction: Good scientific theories need to be vulnerable to be proven wrong.
